All right so continuing on
from the last video, let's explore what happens now
if you throw an exception in a finally clause.
So we need a new class to be created,
a final trial is what we'll call it,
in our exceptions project.
(mouse clicking and typing on a keyboard)
This class has a main method, as you can see,
and also another method that throws an I/O exception
from the catch clause, there are no surprises there.
Now, if we call the method in the main method
by adding some code ... (typing on a keyboard)
you can see that straight away,
we've generated a compile error.
And the error, unhandled exception Java IO exception,
which by now you should know why.
An I/O exception is a checked exception in a code
that calls it needs to catch it.
But instead of adding a try catch clause
around our method call, let's instead change
the method and have it throw a different exception
from the finally clause.
So, I'm basically just gonna replace that method.
(typing on a keyboard)
You can see we're now throwing a new runtime exception
from the finally clause there.
So now we don't have a compile error, why not?
Well, the catch clause might try to throw an I/O exception,
but the finally clause always gets executed
and its execution will be the exception
that is actually thrown.
A runtime exception is unchecked and therefore
the try catch in the calling block and the declaration
in the method is no longer required.
All right, so I think at this point now
we've exhausted varieties with the catch clause.
Let's review some of the catch clause constraints:
A catch clause is not required for unchecked exceptions.
A catch clause is required for checked exceptions,
which are thrown from the code in the try block.
Adding a catch clause for a checked exception
that is never thrown from the code
in the try block is a compiler error.
You can have multiple catch clauses,
each catch clause must specify a unique exception.
Multiple catch clauses should be declared
from most specific to least specific.
It's a compiler error to define a more specific exception,
after a less specific exception
in the same inheritance tree.
A clause that contains multiple exceptions in one clause,
cannot declare two that are in
the same inheritance tree in the same declaration.
An exception parameter is not final
in a single exception clause.
But an exception parameter is implicitly final,
if it is in a multiple exception clause.
Right, so let's end this video here
and in the next one let's start talking
about exceptions which occur during
the initialization of a class or an object.
See you in the next video.